In this lesson I'm gonna show you how to
install
Python on a Windows PC, and it's really
quite simple.
The first thing we're gonna do is open
a browser and navigate over to Python.org,
or www.python.org.
Select the download link.
Scroll down just a bit, and you'll see we
have a Python 2.7.2 Windows installer.
That's one we're going to install.
We're also going to install the Python
3.2.2 installer only
because we're going to use two different
versions of Python.
Python 3 at the beginning for our
introductory lessons or
our review of Python, and then Python 2.7
for some
of the more specialized web apps, only
because not all
of the libraries work with this newer
version of Python.
So I'm gonna demonstrate how to install
2.7.2 or just Python 2.7,
and from that, you download the other
version exactly the same way.
So click on the installer.
Ask you if you want to save the file; say
yes.
Take this a few minutes or a few seconds
to do that, not very long, there we go.
So we're gonna double click this file.
Let's remove the old version.
Now begins the process, and again, you
don't have
to do this, if you don't have Python
installed initially.
But I do, and because I want to do it
orderly, I want to remove it correctly
before I re-install it.
And it's always worthwhile knowing how to
uninstall software, just as it is to
know how to install it because at some
point you may need to uninstall.
You need to see how that process takes
place.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Now if we double click again, here comes
the installation process.
So it asks us where we want to put our
files.
We'll say Python 27.
That's the standard.
You won't see this if you don't have
Python already installed.
Other than that its exactly the same.
So
now we begin another hurry up and wait
process.
Click Finish.
You can clear this list or just close the
downloads window.
Now let's bring up a command prompt
window.
Navigate over to Python 27.
Lets run a little test program.
Were going to call this hello world .py.
Python programs have to have a py
extension.
And
all we're going to do is display hello
world on the screen.
So we'll do it just like so.
So it's print open parent, open quote,
hello
comma world, exclamation point, close
quote, close parent.
Save and exit.
And then to run it, you're gonna type
Python hello world py.
And if hello world appears on your screen
as it did on mine, then everything
is successful, if not, uninstall and
reinstall,
but you should not have had any problem.
So that wraps up this lesson on installing
Python.
Remember, you also wanna go back and
install Python 3,
although you can follow my instructions
with Python 27, also.
But after you've done that, you're ready
to move
to the next lesson where we discuss the
Python interpreter.